# Chinese New Year

*The Spring Festival, Chinese New Year, is celebrated with lots of food, the
color red, and honoring ancestors.*

## What

Chinese New Year is a celebration of the New Year according to the traditional
Chinese calendar - a lunisolar calendar that incorporates the phases of the
moon as well as Earth's position around the sun.

Traditionally, the celebrations are a time to honor various deities, remember
your ancestors and be close to you family. With such a huge quantity of people
celebrating, there are now a wide variety of customs and traditions,  with many
of these being regional.

A major holiday in Greater China, the occasion is also known as the Spring
Festival, celebrated by 20% of the Earth's population! More fireworks are used
on this day than any other.

Celebrations include wonderfully decorative dragons, paper lanterns and the
sharing of red envelopes. Families will often clean their houses to sweep away
ill fortune and make room for good luck. They will also come together for a
feast with dumplings, long noodles, oranges and all sorts of other wonderful
dishes.

## When

Chinese New Year is a 15 day celebration starting on the day of the new moon
that occurs between 21st January and 20th February. Some celebrations include
the eve before this, turning it to a 16 day celebration. Further-more, some
families will begin the festivities with the Laba Festival, creating a 40 day
festive period!

## History

### Animals

Tales say the Jade Emperor held a race between many animals to enter the
heavenly gate. As with all ancient stories, there are many variations told of
why and how this occurred. One thing remains consistent throughout, the order in
which the animals arrived:

- Rat
- Ox
- Tiger
- Rabbit
- Dragon
- Snake
- Horse
- Sheep
- Monkey
- Rooster
- Dog
- Pig

The rat used its cunning ways to win the race and had already ensured one animal
would not be successful. The cat and the rat were close neighbors, but the rat
was tired of the cat's bullying ways. When the race was announced the rat took
an opportunity to scupper the cat's chances. As the cat was a sleepy animal, it
had asked the rat to wake it on the day of the race. Instead, the rat snuck away
quietly leaving the cat asleep and so, the cat slept through the entire race.

[a version of the story](https://www.topmarks.co.uk/ChineseNewYear/ZodiacStory.aspx#:~:text=Long%20ago%2C%20in%20China%2C%20the,the%20zodiac%20named%20after%20them.)

The actual year of the race is disputed and so is the date when the celebrations
began.

<!-- Sections below are from
https://www.travelchinaguide.com/essential/holidays/new-year/history.htm -->

### Origin Early in Shang Dynasty (17th century BC – 1046 BC)

- The history of Chinese New Year was closely associated with agrarian society
  in old times. Ancient people concluded the disciplines of cycles of seasons
  from their planting experience, and the yearly celebration came into being
  with the outcome of calendar in the Shang Dynasty. The earliest worshiping
  activities became the embryo of the festival. People attributed their food,
  clothes and harvest to the god and ancestor’s will, so they held sacrifice
  ceremonies to pray for blessing and peace at the end of each year.

### Use of ‘Year’ in Zhou Dynasty (1046 – 256 BC)

- The name of 'Year', 'Nian' in Chinese, emerged in the Zhou Dynasty, and
  worshiping performance turned to be social practice to observe the beginning
  of farming work in spring. Not only worshiping ancestor and praying for good
  harvest, people also began to enshrine Kitchen God, Gate God, Joy God,
  Wealth God, and Well God.

### Date Fixed since Han Dynasty (202 BC – 220 AD)

- The festival date had been finally entrenched since the Emperor Wudi of Han
  Dynasty fixed it on the first day of the first month in Chinese lunar
  calendar, which was of great significance in Chinese New Year history, for the
  date has been using for thousands of years till now. At that time, the
  festival had become a nationwide event. There was a big carnival launched by
  the government, and civil servants gathered for celebration. New activities
  also arose, such as staying up at night, burning bamboo, which is just like
  setting off fireworks nowadays, as well as hanging peach boards, which later
  became the Spring Festival couplets.

### Celebration Style from Wei & Jin to Qing Dynasty (220 - 1911 AD)

- In Wei and Jin Dynasties (220 – 439AD), the celebration was still a grand fair
  for the government, and common people would use the cracking sound of burning
  bamboo to subdue the evil spirits. Staying up tradition was also widely kept,
  and people would dress in tidy to kneel down to senior family members. The
  words Yuandan and Xinnian were created to mark the turn between two years.

- Dragon Dance Towards Tang and Song Dynasties, the celebration was given a name
  Yuanri. In the flourishing Tang Dynasty (618 - 907 AD), the function of
  Chinese New Year had shifted from worshiping and praying to social
  entertainment. People got public holidays for staying with family members. At
  that time, it evolved into a festival for common people to share jubilation
  indeed. With the invention of black powder in the Song Dynasty (960 - 1279
  AD), firecrackers also came into the celebration.

- From Song Dynasty to Qing Dynasty (1644 - 1911 AD), the Lunar New Year had
  been named Yuandan, and the celebrations were more of social interaction.
  People began to visit friends, relatives and gave gifts to sharing blessing.
  More interesting activities such as dragon dance, lion dance, walking on
  stilts and Shehuo performance were getting popular in this period.

## Who

Majority of people that celebrate are of Chinese origin or Sinophone
communities. Many other people enjoy the bright and colourful celebrations too,
so the tradition is openly celebrated by a wide variety of people from all
walks of life.

## Where

The celebration of Chinese New Year is a huge event in China and Hong Kong. Many
Sinophone communities are present in other areas of Asia, Thailand and Singapore
are among the top locations to visit for a thrilling celebration. With a huge
presence across the globe, celebrations can also be found in Sydney, Australia;
Paris, France; Las Vegas, USA; London, England; Vancouver, Canada and
many more.

## How

A tradition closely followed on this day is getting together with the family to
have a feast.

Certain foods are symbolic and are commonplace during the Chinese New Year.
Dumplings represent wealth, so they are eaten in abundance, with fish being
another food that is eaten a lot. Red is generally considered a lucky color in
China and during the Chinese New Year, it is seen everywhere – representing
vitality, beauty, luck, happiness, and good fortune.

### CHINESE NEW YEAR ACTIVITIES

- Remember your ancestors, celebrate your family
  - Amid all the celebrations it must be remember that the holiday is for the
    whole family. Take time to celebrate and enjoy the company of those nearest
    and dearest to you.

- Eat and be merry, enjoy the festivities
  - Enjoy dim sum! A huge variety of delights await people at Chinese New Year.
    Enjoy the fireworks, parades, and general merriment. Chinese New Year is
    about creating good fortune for the year to come. Take time to enjoy
    yourself and others around you.

- Share the traditional red envelopes
  - Red symbolizes good luck and prosperity and is helpful in warding off evil
    spirits and negativity. Monetary gifts are often given in the attempt to
    bring the recipient good fortune. The gifted amount should be an even value
    and not contain the number 4. Over 8 billion red envelopes are passed around
    families throughout the celebration every year.

## Content Attributes

https://nationaltoday.com/chinese-new-year/
