# Christmas

*Christ's Mass*

## When

- 24th/25th December
- Orthodox Christmas Day is on January 7

## History

### Non-Orthodox

First recorded 'Christmas Day' was in Rome 336 AD

Traditionally, Christians claim Christmas as the day on which Jesus Christ, the
Son of God, was born. The exact date of this is not known as 100% fact, but
December 25 is largely attributed to the first Christian historian, Sextus
Julius Africanus, around 221 A.D.

By the Middle Ages, Europeans created some of the Christmas customs we recognize
today. In Strasbourg, apple-decorated fir trees appeared in homes. During the
17th and 18th centuries, people started to give gifts as symbolic of the Magi
arriving in Bethlehem with offerings for the newborn baby Jesus. By the 19th
century, fir wreaths laden with 24 candles representing the 24 days before
Christmas were later reduced to a much safer four candles. Eventually, Christmas
Day traditions spread beyond Europe to Latin and North America and other places
around the world.

### Orthodox

Orthodox Christmas day occurs every January 7 because the Orthodox Church still
chooses to celebrate the birth of Jesus as per the Julian calendar. The
Gregorian calendar that is currently in use today led to a new Christmas Day on
December 25 due to the addition of new elements that changed the calendar year.
Perhaps we can even say that Orthodox Christmas day is the original Christmas
Day.

### Saturnalia - A Pagan Festival

In Rome, where winters were not as harsh as those in the far north, Saturnalia -
a holiday in honor of Saturn, the god of agriculture - was celebrated. Beginning
in the week leading up to the winter solstice and continuing for a full month,
Saturnalia was a hedonistic time, when food and drink were plentiful and the
normal Roman social order was turned upside down. For a month, enslaved people
were given temporary freedom and treated as equals. Business and schools were
closed so that everyone could participate in the holiday's festivities.

Also around the time of the winter solstice, Romans observed Juvenalia, a feast
honoring the children of Rome. In addition, members of the upper classes often
celebrated the birthday of Mithra, the god of the unconquerable sun, on December
25th. It was believed that Mithra, an infant god, was born of a rock. For some
Romans, Mithra’s birthday was the most sacred day of the year.

In the early years of Christianity, Easter was the main holiday; the birth of
Jesus was not celebrated. In the fourth century, church officials decided to
institute the birth of Jesus as a holiday. Unfortunately, the Bible does not
mention date for his birth (a fact Puritans later pointed out in order to deny
the legitimacy of the celebration). Although some evidence suggests that his
birth may have occurred in the spring (why would shepherds be herding in the
middle of winter?), Pope Julius I chose December 25. It is commonly believed
that the church chose this date in an effort to adopt and absorb the traditions
of the pagan Saturnalia festival. First called the Feast of the Nativity, the
custom spread to Egypt by 432 and to England by the end of the sixth century.

## Where

At least 160 countries worldwide (over 80%)

![map of countries](https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/9/92/Countries_that_recognize_Christmas_as_a_Public_Holiday.png)

## How

Christmas celebrations around the world can vary greatly in Christmas traditions
for many countries involve setting up a Christmas tree with lights, hanging
Advent wreaths and stockings, candy canes, and setting out cookies and milk.
Churches and families set up nativity scenes depicting the birth of Jesus
Christ. Families also send out Christmas cards, exchange gifts, and prepare a
Christmas feast to share with their family or their extended families.

The Christmas season is a much anticipated period of the year all around the
world. It is an important time and means many different things to everyone. It
is a time to reconnect with family and loved ones, a time of giving and
receiving gifts and love, a time to relax and take a break from all the rigors
of the previous months.

Whether you celebrate on December 25 or January 7, Christmas has evolved from a
pagan holiday to a Christian celebration to a time for everyone, no matter their
religion, climes, or associations. It is a time for everyone to make merry and
engage in traditions and customs like organizing and attending Christmas carols
and concerts, putting up Christmas trees and lights, making beautiful Christmas
cookies, and more.

### Gift-Giving

- In most countries in the world, gifts are given to friends and loved ones,
  symbolizing the original offerings by the Magi of gold, frankincense, and
  myrrh to the baby Jesus.

### Christmas Reenactments

- Over several days leading up to Christmas in Mexico, there are reenactments of
  Mary and Joseph’s frantic search for an inn where the baby Jesus might be
  born. On Christmas Day, children take turns batting a piñata stuffed with
  little toys and holiday candy.

### Caroling

- Singing carols on Christmas Eve and Christmas Day involves strolling groups of
  singers, gaily dressed, who sing holiday songs in town squares, business
  districts, or in front of private homes. This tradition extends into December
  in many areas.

## Who

Christians, as well as the general population. Many non-christian cultures have
adopted elements without the religious connotations.

## Links

https://nationaltoday.com/christmas/
https://www.history.com/topics/christmas/history-of-christmas
https://www.familysearch.org/en/blog/11-christmas-facts-and-traditions-that-connect-the-world

## License Info

https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/File:Countries_that_recognize_Christmas_as_a_Public_Holiday.png
